>> Estelle Weyl: So
let's talk a little bit about columns.
So we had that element called col and
what can you do with it?
Turns out not much, but
you can style a little bit.
So here we have column group and
I have four columns for
my, I have the week,
the name of the player.
The name of the club that she
belongs to and the stat for
the week that she was the best player.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
we can add styles here and
feel free to play along.
I can write background-color | pink.
And then, stat background color,
pale goldenrod.
Cuz if you're gonna make something ugly,
the make it really ugly.
There's actually not much styling
that you can do with col.
Like here, if I say font-size,
>> Estelle Weyl: 2ems, nothing happened.
There's very limited styling.
And what you'll note is if you
actually do tr background.
>> Estelle Weyl: It just actually,
hit Enter first.
Right, tr background-color slate gray.
Look at that.
Because the tr is actually the td's,
which are being colored are inside a tr
and they're inheriting that color.
So, you can put a background
color on a column,
which is a nice quick way to do it,
but if you actually overwrite a tr and
that's actually kinda nice because what
you can do is just highlight one of them.
So tr nth-of-type 3.
If you just want to highlight one,
like when you're hovering over it or
something like that.
Or, tr hover, that's a nice effect.
So you can color the whole column and
then overwrite it that way.
So it's not fully useless.
It's a little bit useless,
but not totally.
So here, I have this little link.
To say try it out and let's take
a five minute break while we actually
open up this table and style it with
your new things.
Actually let me say a few things
before we take a break actually.
Which is, this is a really ugly table.
And there's ways of making
tables look much better,
mostly through spacing and removing stuff.
So what I might wanna do is
say thead ( border-bottom|
1px solid}.
>> Estelle Weyl: That doesn't work.
Tr th, why didn't that work?
Okay, so I underlined it this way.
I'm going to put on all my td.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
th's, I'm gonna put
padding just to the right.
So I'm gonna do 0 0 0 10px).
And it gave it more space, but I actually
think I want top and bottom as well.
So I'm gonna do top 5px, 5px and
do you see that the table
already looks better, right?
Then I'm gonna do col,
what is the important column here?
Not the week,
because who cares about the week, right?
I think the name of the player
is the important part, so
let's make that background color and
I hope you're playing along
too.
>> Estelle Weyl: Efefef,
so I'm highlighting that, and
then I'm going to say, first of all,
it's already looking much better.
That is no longer a hideous table.
But I'm gonna put it,
around the whole thing,
I wanna put a border of one pixel, solid.
And that's actually starting
to look like a good table, but
I think that my caption is too close.
Remember, I am not a designer.
Padding 5 pixels.
Let me do padding 5px 0 10px.
That looks good.
Right, we're already getting it to
something where you could put it on
a website and not be ashamed of yourself.
Font-weight,
>> Estelle Weyl: Bold and
then let's actually make the t,
the tables across the column,
across the top or the header.
Let's do that,
give that a background color.
>> Estelle Weyl: And let's
do #dedede.
I don't like the fact that we have
white between club and week stat line.
That doesn't look good.
So what, anyone remind me what
property will get rid of that spacing?
>> Speaker 2: Border colapse?
>> Estelle Weyl: Exactly.
And that it's put on the table.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
there it looks much better except for,
I like more spacing than we have now.
So I'm gonna add to the padding.
>> Estelle Weyl: I'm
gonna do 10px, 5px,
10px and 15px, okay.
And I wanna stripe it,
how would I stripe the table?
>> Speaker 3: T r the even or
the even something.
>> Estelle Weyl: T r even, but
what's the actual thing
between what holds the even?
>> Speaker 3: F of type.
>> Estelle Weyl: F of type, very good.
So Tr, so
I'm going to do only the tr tbody.
Right?
T body, t-r,
nth of type.
Even and what I'm going to do is give it
color, rgba or
let me do this.
>> Estelle Weyl: Black.
And how can I make it not black?
>> Estelle Weyl: 10,
there.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
an interesting thing to note
is that I styled the tr and
when it hits the column, right,
it's not overriding the column.
It's putting background
color on the Tr and
the background color of
the column is coming through.
See that?
>> Estelle Weyl: And
now let's do Tr on hover,
background color light blue.
I don't know if light
blue is actually a color.
It is!
There we go.
Why is jade not change in color.
>> Estelle Weyl: What did we do?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
We targeted it somehow.
>> Speaker 3: If we put t body before Tr
hover, would that be more specific?
Yeah.
Good job.